--
layout: post
title: Project Iteration 2
tag: EDAV
--

{% include JB/setup %}

Project Outline:
As in the last iteration, our overall plan remains the same: to uncover what economic, social, political, and environmental factors affect the percentage of citzens that choose a particular item as a priority for the future. \(See last [post](http://malecki.github.io/edav/2014/02/12/prjidea) for refresher.\) Furthermore, we are interested in the linkages and networks that tie these factors together.  To this end, we've revised our project outline to scale back and refocus our efforts.  We will NOT be using twitter data. That seemed like an entire project within itself.

After looking closely through the various indicators, we found that the project will be most impactful if we center it around three questions: 
1) What indicators and/or indicator clusters are most impactful and for which of the 16 priorities? 
2) What are linkages between/among both the indicators and priorities and how can we show this most clearly? 
3) Working backwards, can we rank the indicators to show which metrics specific countries should prioritize?   

Completed Tasks by Week 3 \(March 2nd-8th\):
1) Aggregated priorities by country
2) Choose top 500 indicators

Next Steps:
Week 4-6 \(March 9th-April 5th\): Combine data into one dataset in R and run analysis.  We will most likely try two data approaches:
1) Elastic net regression on 16 priorities to determine the impact of various indicators and how they group together. \(In elastic net, indicators with similar betas are correlated.\)
2) PCA including both the priorities and indicators to get a sense of how these link together.  

Week 7 & 8 \(April 6th-April 19th\): Solidify our graphics.  Right now, we are imagining 1) a network graph to show linkages and impact of various indicators on one priority and 2) interactive tool -- either random indicator generator or user can select certain indicator -- to show the effect of an individual metric on each of the 16 priorities.  

Week 9 \(April 20th-26th\): Edit, edit, edit our visualizations.  


