---
layout: post
title: Ben Tucker - Blog Post 3 - Extractive Industries
description: 
tags: blog
---


## Extractive Industries Data Dive
## Global Trends in Profitability and State Revenues

### Description 

This project began with a hackathon hosted by the United Nations Development Program and the Quantitative Methods in Social Sciences program.

Several datasets and research questions were released related to extractive industries worldwide. My team worked on the question of what sorts of 'taxation regimes' various countries and industries showed. Did governments manage to capture a higher portion of extractive resource values when those industries experienced high profit rates? 

The results showed that certain industries, like Oil, which are hugely profitable and often centralized, are more frequently profitable for host states, while mineral extraction, which is more easily done without full fair accounting to host states, is hardly profitable for host countries. 

The original version of this visualization, produced during the hackathon is [here](http://bht.atwebpages.com/undp/).

As my team was selected to go forward and try to revise our work for publication on a UN website, we had various changes requested. I've attempted a better comparison and selection interaction in my second version. Still, this is somewhat clunky, and the page should likely be redesigned to be more obvious to interact with. Nonetheless, my final blogpost shows some improvements made on my own work, introducing some new features into my overarching project of an effective Datamaps-C3-Angular interface. The post can be seen [here](http://bht.atwebpages.com/undp2/).

