---
layout: post
title: Project Brainstorm
tags: project
---

## UN MyWorld Priorities 

Background: 
The UN created a global survey of citizens' priority issues to be incorporated in the next wave of UN Millenium Goals.  Any online or ballot voter can choose the six priorities that they feel will most affect their family in the next 15 years.  Currently the survey has over 1 million responses and counting.  Check out the site: [My World](http://www.myworld2015.org/)  While the site has a few cool visualization, the analysis is very basic.  The team at the UN was particularly interested in dissecting 'Honest and Responsible Government' \(which was surprisingly high\) to uncover connections with the UN corruption index.  

Project Outline:
Our current plan is to uncover what economic, social, political, and environmental factors affect the percentage of citzens that choose a particular item as a priority for the future.  One example is the corruption index: how much does corruption in a country influence how important people feel this is?  or is there a tipping point for access to clean water, for example?  

Analysis Plan:
Week 1 & 2 \(Feb 16th-March 1st\): >Gather external data including data from the World Bank, UNDC, UNESCO among others for a comprehensive list of external factors.  We want to map out these interactions and slim our list to 15-20 driver to test against each of the 16 priorities.  Because we believe the setup will define the project, we expect to spend 1-2 weeks on this. 

Week 3 \(March 2nd-8th\): >Because there are over 1 million responses, we will first import into MySQL.  From here, we will aggregate to the country level and export to R and python for data analysis.

Week 4-6 \(March 9th-April 5th\): >We plan on getting to the meat of the data analysis by week 4.  Initial thoughts are to use ridge, lasso, or elastic net in R to define the impact of the key factors on the 16 priorities.However, this could change depending on the mapping process from week 1 & 2.  In addition (and in accordance with time constraints), we have considering graphing UN key words on Twitter as another indication of how well the UN goals capture the issues people worry about on a day-to-day basis.   

Week 7 & 8 \(April 6th-April 19th\): >At this point, we want to design our visualizations.  This will include exporting our R code to python and to d3 for interactive graphs.    

Week 9 \(April 20th-26th\): >Edit, edit, edit our visualizations.  

A few comments:
We do not expect this process to be as clean-cut as our timeline.  The data mapping, analysis, and visualization are interdependent and iterative, so this is a flexible schedule.  However, we have two firm deadlines that we want to keep. By week 3, we want to have all our data imported into R for analysis.  And by the end of week 8, we want our visualizations on the web.  




 


