---
layout: post
title: Blog Post 2 - Incarceration Demographics by Offense in the US - awc2134
description: An exercise in creating a dynamic, interactive d3 visualization
tags: blog
---

## Incarceration Demographics by Offense in the US

### Objective

The primary objective of this blog post is to perform an exercise in creating a dynamic and interactive d3 visualization of correlated data.  I wanted whatever the visualization turned into to have an exploratory component to it, so that if a user felt like it they may look at the data from all relevant angles.  What the data was that I would use for this exercise was not nearly as important to me as teaching myself important methods of implementing interactivity in my chart.

### The Data

The Bureau of Justice Statistics regularly releases reports on all of the trends in admissions and releases from federal and state prisons in the United States. I was specifically interested in analyzing the demographics over time of incarcerated individuals, specifically with regard to their offense.   The information gathered for this visualization was specifically pulled from [this report](http://www.bjs.gov/content/pub/pdf/p12tar9112.pdf).  While there are a few lineplots illustrating important time-lapse statistics, the rest of the data was simply given in tabular form, which definitely left something to be desired.

### The Solution - found [here](http://run.plnkr.co/plunks/r0C0C2/)

There are many raw numbers in the report telling of gross acceptances to prisons, but I was much more interested in looking at a comparison of demographics based on proportions within those demographics.  This way I would more easily be able to show what offenses each demographic is more or less prone to being jailed for.

I ended up with a normalized stacked bar plot implementation for my visualization, mainly because I like them but also because I think they make a lot of sense when working with many proportional statistics.  The only problem with a normalized stacked bar plot is that while the group that is on the top and bottom is easily comparable between groups, it is much less ideal for any groups that fall in the middle of the bars.  Therefore an important piece of the implementation would be to improve upon the general model of a normalized stacked bar plot and allow users to click on a group to bring that group to the bottom of the bars and re-order them from greatest to least (try it, its fun!).

I admit I did not come upon this idea on my own.  When researching different normalized stacked barchart examples online I stumbled upon another implemented version [here](http://stanford.edu/~tnance/animatedBarchart.html), which I found to be a crucial reference and tool for building my chart with this added implementation.  There was a bug in the code of the animated barchart example that caused it to not always sort by decreasing order.  This bug was solved easily due to the nature of my proportional datasets.

I also implemented two dropdown menus, for type of demographic and year, which allowed the users the aforementioned ability to explore the data as they see fit.  The button "Swap Axes" was created last as a way to analyze the demographics separately and see the proportions in a different light.

### Headaches

This visualization came with its own set of migraine headaches and late nights, primarily revolving around the dynamic aspect of what I wanted.  Rather than putting all of the data into a single csv or json file and parsing that file for the relevant information every time I changed my dropdown menus, I ended up creating many different csv files (18 to be exact) and simply changing the source file each time.  I understand that this is really a terrible way to go about it, but this method was much, much easier to execute in the end and having a working visualization is better than not having one.

### Conclusion

This project was a serious challenge.  Many late nights and early mornings before work were spent toiling in plunker but I truly enjoyed it and I feel stronger for having accomplished it.  This is mainly because I no longer feel like creating thorough, interactive, and dynamic visualizations is something completely beyond my means.  I accomplished my objective and I know I am more prepared for the next step in my project.

Thanks for reading, and enjoy exploring my viz!
