---
layout: post
title: Ben Tucker - Blog Post 2 - NYC Co-Ops
description: 
tags: blog,map,d3,NYC
---


## Visualizing NYC Co-Op Values 
## Over Time & Space

### Description 

The unique entity structure of cooperatives makes valuation of an entire tax parcel a special challenge for the NYC Department of Finance. 


In order to assess the market value of these buildings, the D.O.F. compares every co-op to similar rentals and comes up with a valuation. Though this data is required to be public, it has only recently been actually released. 


NYC's open data portal contains 20 different tables with property-level valuation data for 4 years across 5 boroughs (hence 20 tables). For me, this hardly counts as publishing the data, since neither spatial or temporal trends are visible. I brought all the tables into a common database and used city planning data on tax parcels to associate each valuation with a zip code. 


I began the visualization with the rMaps library's ichoropleth function, but it required significant adjustments. For one, I discovered on first viewing the ichoropleth display that many zipcodes lacked any co-ops at all. The ichoropleth output was still quite useful, though, as I was able to use the json "payload" it produces to explicitly handle the missing zipcodes. My solution was to read my topoJSON zipcode map into Python to get a full set of zipcodes my map would include. I then used the newData object produced by ichoropleth, a by-year dictionary of data to be bound to zipcodes, and for each year, I created new dictionary for the missing zipcodes, creating a new fillKey to control the ultimate display of the missing data zipcodes. 


The post can be seen [here](http://bht.atwebpages.com/blog2/)